Table Troops
A 10 minute battle game for 2 players, aged 6+. By Lev and Neil Crowley
What's This Game About?
You are in charge of 5 soldiers. Knock out the other player’s soldiers, and sneak one of your own to the other side of the battlefield to win. You probably already have everything you need to play around the house.
What You Need
10 toy soldiers (5 in one colour and 5 in another)
4 six-sided dice
1 15cm (approx) pencil/ruler/stick etc for moving
About 5-10 pieces of cover like books, Lego walls, or cups for hiding behind. Some should all be tall enough to completely hide a soldier, others low enough to peek over.
Setting Up Your Battle
Make a square battlefield on a table or floor. About 50cm long and wide is good.
Add lots of pieces of cover. Spread them out all over the battlefield.
Randomly decide who starts at each edge of the battlefield (you could toss a coin).
Starting with the older player, take turns placing one of your soldiers anywhere on your edge, till you’ve placed them all (it's good to start hidden if you can).
The younger player takes the first turn.
How to Take Your Turn
Pick one of your standing soldiers to use this turn (you can even choose the one you chose last turn).
First: Move
Then: Shoot OR Heal
Moving
Place the pencil next to your soldier.
Move your soldier straight along the pencil.
You can’t change direction.
You can stop whenever you like, you just can’t move more than the pencil’s length.
You can drag any of your lying soldiers you touch to safety - just move them along with you.
Shooting
Choose any enemy soldier whose head your soldier can see - get down behind your soldier and look from its point of view.

Roll dice to see if you hit:

Start with one die.
Close range: If the enemy is nearer than the pencil’s length, add another die.
Open shot: If your soldier can see all of the enemy, and not just its head, add another die.
Supporting fire: If at least one of your other soldiers can also see the enemy, add another die.

Roll your dice. If any of them is 5 or 6, you hit.
Shooting Back
If the enemy soldier can see your soldier too, it may fire back, even if you hit it. 

Your opponent works out how many dice to roll in the way described above.
If any of them are 6 (5 is not enough when firing back) your soldier is hit too.

When a soldier is hit, lie it down. It can’t move, shoot, or be shot at until it’s healed. It's possible that your soldier and the enemy shoot each other!
Healing 
If your soldier is touching one of your lying down soldiers, it can help it up instead of shooting:
Start with 1 die. 
Hidden: If no enemy can see your soldier, add 1 die.
Roll all your dice. If any shows a 5 or a 6, stand the lying soldier up.
Winning
When one of your soldiers reaches the other player’s side of the battlefield you win.
